Document SAML APIs (#45105)
elastic/elasticsearch: x-pack/docs/en/rest-api/security/saml-prepare-authentication-api.asciidoc

[role="xpack"]
[[security-api-saml-prepare-authentication]]
=== SAML prepare authentication API

Creates a SAML authentication request as a URL string, based on the

> configuration of the respective SAML realm in {es}. 

Reviewer: Blurb ...

[[security-api-saml-prepare-authentication-request]]
==== {api-request-title}

`POST /_security/saml/prepare`

[[security-api-saml-prepare-authentication-desc]]
==== {api-description-title}

> This API returns a URL that contains a URL pointing to the SAML Identity

Reviewer: a URL _that contains_ a URL ?

Author: URLinception

Provider. You can use the URL to redirect the browser of the user in order to

> continue the authentication process. The URL contains a single parameter named `SAMLRequest`, which contains a SAML Authentication request that is deflated and

Reviewer: too many _contains_ here.
```suggestion
continue the authentication process. The URL includes a single parameter named `SAMLRequest`, which consists of a SAML Authentication request that is deflated and
```

Base64 encoded. If the configuration dictates that SAML authentication requests
should be signed, the URL has two extra parameters named `SigAlg` and
`Signature`. These parameters contain the algorithm used for the signature and
the signature value itself.

{es} exposes all the necessary SAML related functionality via the SAML APIs.
These APIs are used internally by {kib} in order to provide SAML based
authentication, but can also be used by other custom web applications or other
clients. See also <<security-api-saml-authenticate,SAML authenticate API>>,
<<security-api-saml-invalidate,SAML invalidate API>>, and
<<security-api-saml-logout,SAML logout API>>.

[[security-api-saml-prepare-authentication-request-body]]
==== {api-request-body-title}

`acs`::

>   (string) The Assertion Consumer Service URL that matches the one of the SAML

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  (Optional, string) The Assertion Consumer Service URL that matches the one of the SAML
```

  realms in {es}. The realm is used to generate the authentication request.

>   Either this or `realm` should be specified.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  You must specify either this parameter or the `realm` parameter.
```

`realm`::

>   (string) The name of the SAML realm in {es} for which the configuration is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  (Optional, string) The name of the SAML realm in {es} for which the configuration is
```

>   used to generate the authentication request. Either this or `acs` should be

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  used to generate the authentication request. You must specify either this parameter or the `acs`
```

>   specified.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  parameter.
```

[[security-api-saml-prepare-authentication-response-body]]
==== {api-response-body-title}  

`id`::
  (string) An identifier for the SAML Request to be stored by the caller

>   of the API.

Reviewer: I think we need to explain this `id` somewhere.
